Welcome to AV testing podcast, your modern testing podcast. Your hosts, Alan and Brent,
will be here to guide you through topics on testing, leadership, agile, and anything else
that comes to mind. Now on with the show. Hey everyone. We're back again. We're going
to do this thing again. The third COVID version of, Oh, Oh, Oh, it's episode one 19 with COVID
one. I did not plan that that popped into my head and now it's happening and it's a thing.
COVID one 19. Yeah. It's Alan and Brent one 19. We are hoping that everyone is staying
healthy, staying sane. Can I say that? I think that I don't know about you, but I have
just, I have employees going stir crazy. I'm doing okay. I'm working more, which I know
is wrong. So I'm going to try and take, I'm going to try and not work at all over the
weekend and we're going to see how that goes. But how about you? How are you holding up?
Holding up well, I think a future episode, by the way, we'll go into, I noticed a tweet
from you recently around, hi, my name's Alan. I am a stud when it comes to managing remote
teams. I'm paraphrasing and I have a remote employee starting on Monday. Great. So as,
as you know, I think I should last time I'm in the middle of a whole bunch of COVID related
missions at Microsoft. I will say, as I also said last time, this new working from home
and all of the half hour meetings back to back, that's the one thing I don't understand why,
but it is driving me crazy. It's just half hour back to back to back to back to back to back.
It completely drains this introverts battery. Yeah, I end up exhausted at the end of the day.
I'm having 10 to 12 meetings a day, sometimes a few more. Yeah, right now for the foreseeable
future, my Wednesdays are literally half hours back to back. So I guess that makes it 16. I have
blocked off lunch and I am now immediately declining. But Brent, it's really urgent.
I don't care. Yeah, my Thursdays start at 5.30 in the morning. And luckily in the afternoon
yesterday, I had some time off, took the dog for a walk, try and get some recharge time in
because it's the same thing with me. I feel it really, the meetings are valuable. They're
not bad meetings to be in, but I'm just drained at the end of them. So I took some recharge time
to walk the dog. And then I was working on kind of this thing we were just talking about before
the call. And I pinged someone about getting some information about a project that had missed
estimate by quite a bit. I'm just gathering some retrospective data. He said, this is complicated.
Can we have a call? So I did a call with him about from 5.30 to 6 at night. And I just was
ready to drink and curl up into a ball at the end. Yeah, I get that. So as you know, the COVID
practices continue to sort of have a domino effect. I don't have anything relating to
data, but I'm barely certain that that effect is just like COVID. It started off with sort of an
exponential growth curve. I think the domino effect is now starting to have an exponential
growth curve. Again, I have not looked at that data at all. But companies are laying off,
companies are furloughing. Right now, Microsoft as we get closer and closer to the end of our fiscal
year, fiscal year is where we get new budget. So the positions, what we used to call, or what
you used to call, I still do, the RECs, the open head count.
That may be an industry-wide term, but go on.
Okay, the open head count is rapidly shifting. Microsoft is building a new data center in
Atlanta. We already have four folks there. I'm serving as an active manager for that team.
And just came down this week that the open manager position we had for that one
is at severe risk. So there is a non-trivial chance that I will shortly be in a position
where half of my team is on opposite sides of the United States.
You're so funny.
Yeah.
My team lives 10 hours away. Half of them do.
By walking, driving, flying?
10-hour time zone difference.
Oh, gotcha.
Yeah. Okay. Great. So for me, what seems like
challenging difficulty, you're like, I dream of your situation, nevertheless.
Yeah, that's why I love it.
As previously stated, you're a master of managing.
I want to come back to that. This is why I love Fridays, because the folks in Europe don't
generally want to have late afternoon or early evening meetings on Fridays, so I get a little
extra time. A few fewer meetings on Fridays. It's great. A couple things to mention. I'm a master,
but here's something interesting that happened with my latest rec. See how I use that lingo?
I had a plan to, from the beginning, the person I'm talking about, and I'll give you
the name in a second, is the plan all along was then to work fully remote, to not be part
of an office, to work from their home the entire time. There were a few like, I don't know,
but my boss is really supportive, and we made it happen. I was able to get a rec approved by
finance, get all the leveling and pay done, all remote, which is great. What will be cool is,
he'll onboard remotely. Then at some point, when everybody goes back to the office,
he'll just stay at home and people won't notice that he's never coming to an office. I think
it's going to work out very well. In your travels around the internet, I'm sure this is the name,
at least some of our listeners have mentioned. I can bring this up because this won't get out
until after he starts, but do you know if you come across Noah Sussman?
Yes.
So Noah is my new hire starting on Monday.
Nice.
Yeah, it's pretty exciting.
Is Noah one of the three?
Noah's not one of the three, but Noah definitely could be. I don't require it of my employees.
I have a handful of my employees hang out among the three, or former employees in some cases,
but he's going to do some great things and take a lot of load and pressure off of me,
which is going to be great. I'm pretty darn excited. Then I have a skip level also starting
in San Francisco working remotely on Monday. So my team is doubtful. And we,
unlike Microsoft, the fiscal year for us actually matches the calendar year.
So I am done with hiring until probably until 2021.
Jay, makes a lot of sense. All right.
So you had...
I do. I do. And I'm going to segue. I'm going to segue.
I was going to say you did a brilliant segue 10 minutes ago.
I know. And I'm going to re segue with a twist.
So I think I mentioned, yeah, I'm going to do this. I mentioned 10 minutes ago, it seems that
it's easy to follow up on bugs and things that go wrong for a retrospective.
It's also good to look at things like delays in delivery and do not a deep,
necessarily deep dive into what went well, what went wrong.
But what I found is taking time to reflect and to learn is so important. And I think that,
no, I know that a organization that emphasizes learning and improvement is an organization
that's going to predictably deliver high quality, reliable software.
From my experience, it's been experience I've observed. I'm pretty strong around that point.
Yet, yet. I don't know that teams in general take advantage of the retrospective as much
as they could. And one thing I'm thinking of is at the end of this COVID thing,
well, maybe it'll never end. But when we start going back to work,
I think there are some things we should learn from our experiences and everyone working from
home and distributed work that may actually help us going forward back in the workspace.
And what makes me sad a little bit is that I don't know if a lot of teams or organizations
will take the time to reflect on what went well, what didn't go well, and the whole working from
home, everyone working from home thing, and then apply that going forward. So the teams that will,
there is a huge opportunity for teams to reflect on this time through something like a retrospective
in order to make some lasting change in their organization. So with all that long intro,
I thought it would be good for us to talk about the importance and the value and some tips and
tricks for retrospectives for a little bit here today. There's my intro. Give me your thoughts.
So I do know, for example, my, my skill level manager is planning on talking about this
and doing something here. Behavioral psychology, like, for example, one of the things that we
know of human behavior is that if you repeat a pattern for around 90 days, it becomes a new
part of your structure. And right now, I think we're about halfway through the 90 day period,
at least I am. Then my anchors of this is, is both my wife and I celebrated our 50th this year.
We were actually able to go to a fancy resort. I was COVID-19 up for my 50th.
Happy birthday, Brent.
Oh yeah. I mean, it's, it's more than a month delayed, but I appreciate the sentiment out.
And one quick shout out to my kid who is having his 16th birthday today in COVID isolation.
Yeah, that sucks. Yeah. I mean, wish him happy birthday, but he's got my empathy.
Hey, you're old enough to drive, but you have to stay home. Sucks to be you kid.
Now, yeah, one of my employees just, just shared that they're at 20 weeks and they're about to
have their first kid. And of course the wife is, is like, okay, is my mom even going to be able to
come and visit? Oh my God. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And anyway,
that's, this is the retrospective show. So yeah, there's going to be a lot of learnings on that
front. And obviously learning is easier if it's positively reinforced by action from the top
down, but it's not necessarily necessary. I do find the retrospective is in fact,
the most important meeting of the week. But one of the anti-patterns that, that often takes a
lot of time to weed out of the team is it's not a post-mortem. It's, it's your job is to
leverage hindsight and find practical changes that you should implement now. Yes. Yeah. So as you know,
I do a lot of agile coaching, or at least I did. It's not so much anymore. It's not a new thing as
it once was in Microsoft. So I have a whole deck. I have a whole different variant of Klonbon
that I've put together. And I have a slide on, on this in that deck. So I don't know where you
want to go here, but I'm, I'm ready to talk about things. Okay. I want to push back on one thing
and elaborate a little bit and see where things go. One is the line I give my teams and the teams
I work with is the retrospective is the second most important meeting of the week, only behind
the one-on-one with your manager. No, one-on-ones with your manager are useless. What are you
talking about? All right. If you had said stand up, you know, I might have a viable argument.
No, I wouldn't. I don't even care if you do stand up. Just do the damn retro. And the retro might tell
you you have to do stand up. And of course, the, I do want to point out that the people look at the
manifesto for those four statements, this, over this, this, over this, blah, blah, blah. But there
are a whole crap ton of agile principles. And one of those is the one that says at regular intervals,
the team reflects on how to become more effective and then tunes and adjust its behavior
accordingly. And it is often neglected and I just don't get it. I just don't get it.
Oh, and I do. It's, it's again, over and over. What I've, what I've seen is the pattern is
people use it as a way to get the team together and have a post-mortem.
Yeah. And, and, and that is maybe 25% of the value.
Maybe, maybe. And do you remember the old days of Microsoft when we worked on these products that
took three to five years to make. And at the end, uh, there would be no reflection on what went
wrong, but we would celebrate what went well by having a big expensive party.
Oh, I would often be in post-mortems as well. Um, but because it's a post-mortem after three years,
right? We would only talk about, um, uh, what was top of everyone's mind, which is generally,
you know, whatever caused the, the slip. Yeah. And in the last month.
And I remember the post-mortems, uh, just about every single post-mortem,
I went to at Microsoft and these are all far in the past were, uh, they came out with a big,
long list of things that didn't go well. And maybe some things that went well, I don't remember,
but I do remember that that list was then quickly forgotten and nothing ever done with it.
And the key, the key to a retro is I, and I think you and I are highly aligned on this is
take the time to reflect, celebrate some things that went well, find some things that didn't go
well, and then come out with one or two or maybe three at the most action items, things that are
going to happen. And those are assigned immediately. Those have owners, those are done. And what
happens as a team gets into the habit of this is very often those things that were
complaints in one week or one retro, and they get action items assigned and someone deals with them,
they become the thing you celebrate as a victory or something that's worth celebrating
in the following retrospective. When you are a team, if you're having these weekly,
even if you're having these every other week, I would not go any less frequent than that.
And you say you just pick one thing to improve and it happens throughout the year.
You've made 25 small improvements throughout the year, which is a huge difference on a team.
And again, going back to what I said earlier, embracing learning and improvement. This is
in the quality culture transition guide, but embracing learning and improvement is a key
aspect of building your quality culture. Yes, absolutely. Now the
things to disagree on. I think we're highly aligned here.
Yeah, but here I think our intent, did you want to argue about?
No, no, no, but I'm going to ask this. How do you get teams to do retro if they're not doing
them? Because we agree they're super important. And I think we also agree not enough teams do
them. How do you get teams to do them? So normally when I'm doing it, it's because
they've come to me and they've asked me to teach them the system. And what I do,
generally as part of that, when I sign up is I tell them, I am actually going to run
their retrospective. I run their, their stand up for the next month. And I run retrospective for
the next two months, although not quite. So I will run it for the next, I will run their
retrospective for the month that I'm running stand up. And, but during that time, we have
identified, I have identified who is going to take point on running retrospective when I depart.
In that second month, we shift over to that person doing it. And I'm in the room and I'm
coaching them. Right. So initially, it's very structured, because I want them to understand
the, the right questions to ask, and how to, how to look at the problem. So I, the way I found
most successful is I basically control it. I come in and I say, this is what you're going to do.
These are the questions we're going to ask. And we're going to keep doing it until, until you were
able to see the positive impact. It works very well. For example, if, if you have sprints that are
in with that timeline, I just mentioned, it's a team you're talking about is either shifting to
compound, which is normally what I recommend, or, or at least have a, a small sprint cycle. Right.
If they don't have a small sprint cycle, then that's the first thing I do is change that.
Yeah. I think that I have a slightly different approach, but which people were talking about
is I often start with a less formal approach. I often, so we talk a lot about velocity and
predictability. You and I have talked about a little bit offline. I think we talked the last
episode about velocity. One of the things that I have been telling the teams and one, one wonderful
thing about our organization is, is full one I, I pick on them, but they're a high performing org.
I just can spot the areas to improve, maybe better than some. So when I talk about velocity
and delivery velocity and predictability, the thing I bring up is it's not about coding faster.
It's about recognizing where the delays are in the system and finding ways to mitigate or
eliminate those. Yes. And those delays can be anything from waiting for a code review to
something taking too long in the build system to waiting for legal to sign off on something.
It's an endless list, but here is the key. So the next step in the plan or the thing
now that the org recognizes, yeah, you're right, Alan, it's the delays. It's not,
those are the things that messes up. We never thought about them before. Oh, so now you're
thinking about them. And then I do often for teams that aren't doing retros, the stealth retro,
where maybe it's, I mean, they may want to meet with me and talk about, hey, Alan,
what are some ways you think we can do improve our velocity or what are some ways you think we
can improve quality? And without even being formal, I may just in a meeting with them,
ask some questions like, what do you think is going well in regards to this? And we'll list
some things on the board or in some these days in virtual notes. And then I say, well, what
are some things that aren't going well? And we'll take some more notes on that. Are there a
couple of things we can do about it right away that would make a difference? Yeah, yeah. Then
we do those things and then I may cap it off. We should have another meeting like this in next
week or the week after. Yeah, that's a good idea. And then all of a sudden we're doing retros.
Oh, yeah. Stealth right through. Love the term. Yeah.
Because there are, we have the culture of autonomy in our organization is so strong.
People want to be independent and make their own choices and they're really good at it.
But what it does is when you have that culture, it can make a little bit of aversion to things
sound like process. So I have to be very careful of that because I want to, to use my Heffetz quote
yet again, disappoint people at a level they can absorb. So I find that going into that
discussion, if they don't feel like it's a air quote processing thing, I end up having a lot more
success. So I ended up doing stealth retros quite a bit. And some teams are actually a little farther
along. They actually realize the value of them and do them much better and on their own.
That's a worthy discussion point. That's an interesting concept. I am thinking,
well, I don't want to do that right now on the podcast, but it might be something we're
talking about later because I do have something very process laden. And I have now mastered when
people come in with, with sort of their process, both a bit firmly entrenched in the on position.
I have come up with all kinds of ways to break down that wall. But as we know, the more you can
boil the frog and make him think it was their idea in the first place, the more sustainable it is.
Yeah. Yeah. And I think this just points out that you need to recognize the context of the team
you're dealing with. For some teams, you can say, you know what, let's have a retrospective on this.
They go, yeah, let's do that. But you know your teams, you know, the teams you're working with,
whether it's the team you're on, which is probably true for most of you, or if you're
in a role more like mine, where your team is 50 different teams around that organization
is finding the way that will work for that team. Because honestly, what we want to do is get every
team to embrace the value of reflecting on the work they've done and figure out what have a
little mini celebration for us. Well, well, and then also figure out where improvements can be
made. We retro everything. So is it worthwhile for me to sort of try to describe at a high level
what my process is? Yeah, I think everybody knows Alan is the loose and wing it, foot loose and
fancy free retro. And one thing is we do team retros for project work. And then also anytime
there's an opportunity for learning, our org is pretty good about, hey, yeah, let's retro that.
We just did a promotion cycle. We're doing it. We do promotion panels and we had multiple
retros on how the panels work so we can get them even better next time. There's a series of meetings
we have. We'll go into details and we took some time to have retros on those to figure out what's
going well to try and improve those. So our org is pretty good at that. But as good as we are
at retrowing some things, some things we forget to, that's where I poke in sometimes with the
self retro, just to make sure everyone is embracing that learning culture. So yeah,
that is my recap. Go on to the little more Brenta fied version of the retro.
Sure. It's interesting on your recap, because every so often I will represent my deck around
the system to my own team. It's maybe about once a year. And it's fascinating because
I'm able to very clearly see solutions that in the moment I don't see. And that's because
I'm in the weeds. And so this deck has been, or the deck that I do has been fascinating to me,
because it's sort of the completely buried and in fire drills, subjective Brent being talked to
by five years ago, objective Brent. And then I'm like, Oh yeah, I should go back to that. I can
see where I diverge and got in the weeds. Anyway, so when retrospectives at a high level,
I generally do two different types. Here, I'll just talk about what I call the weekly
retrospective. If there's interest, we can talk about the quarterly one as well.
The weekly, the problem I find with the weekly retrospective is generally very tactical. So
you generally see people talking about, you know, what, what could have improved this particular
feature of this particular story or this particular fill in the blank on your own tactical
thing. And it's useful in my experience to have something quarterly that sort of
goes up the stack and tries to identify patterns. And you can search it on the internet for that.
It's called the starfish model retrospective. I find that very handy. The other thing I've done
for the weekly retrospective is in order to make it slip side, it's just not, you know,
I get together time. I started off with a goal and the goal of the retrospective is
by the end of the retrospective, we should have identified two actionable things
for two categories that we will immediately implement. And the categories are celebrate and
change. What are two things based on what we learned today that we should change immediately
and what are two things that we should celebrate immediately. And that's the goal.
That's the goal I put in place for retrospective so that it's not just to talk fast. Okay.
A couple of changes that I do. We generally will talk about tickets that are perceived as
problematic. So that this could be tickets, stories, again, and we do a Kanban style
so we will specifically target the ones that were over, that were delivered over the SLA.
But you could also do overestimate. For those who don't understand the difference in Kanban,
typically you want to target tickets that you spend less than a amount of time planning on this.
You really just want confidence that you can complete it in two weeks or less. And if you can,
then great. Don't spend the time estimating. So for us, the SLA will be two weeks for initial
start. And then if it goes over, we want to talk about those. Now, here's one first paradigm shift
that we kind of do is we want retrospective to be focused on it's a team sport. Okay.
But that's generally not how tickets are executed unless you're in a place that's
XP and everyone mobs or pair programs. Generally, you have a single person that was on that delay.
Now, the one of first perspective is when we talk about it, we're going to assume that
that person was perfect in every single way. And that the reason why there was delay in that ticket
was due to the other members of the team. What this does over time is it gets people to realize
how they in fact could have detected earlier that this ticket was late or was about to be late and
how they could have come in, shared knowledge, etc. I see you nodding in the camera. Do you wish
to interject? Nope, I'm with you. All right. The other thing I tried to do is get them to identify
waste. Waste, waste tickets, or delay. These are the biggest causes from my experience,
the biggest causes of why it was late. My favorite thing is something I picked up from Eric Reese.
And that is if you can identify a waste ticket, and I'll give you a little clue about that later.
Actually, let me talk about waste ticket. So if you want to identify if it's a waste ticket,
you first go, value I got from the ticket, would I do more of it if I could? If the answer is yes,
then that is probably value. Now, let's assume it's customer value in this case. But if you said,
no, I would not do more of it if I could, then you ask, can I do less of it? And if the answer
is no, that's a cost. If you can't do less of it, then that's just a cost of doing business.
Like, for example, monitoring. Would you do more monitoring if you could?
A lot of times the answer is no. But can you do less of it? Also, no. Right. So,
monitoring, writing monitoring or things of that sort is often just a cost of running a service,
doing a business. I like this framing, and I may stick this into even a stealth retro,
but it's a way it prompts the right questioning around the tasks the team is working on. So
that's really valuable. Yep. Cool. And then once you identify it's a waste ticket,
and I'm going to try to finish the rest of this in maybe three minutes,
it once you identify the waste ticket, then the real critical thing is to talk about is what
could the team had done differently to come to the same conclusion much sooner. And that
is very valuable. Like we've talked over and over again around the Eric Ries scenario.
I find it encouraging people to practice that muscle and come up with creative ways that
they could have realized that they were onion peeling something that would ultimately have no
value sooner than we can close on those things faster and get them onto something more valuable.
So learning to identify that you're working on a waste ticket right now is just a fantastic
muscle to build. Once people get good at that, then you got to teach them how to identify delay.
And I normally will tell people, hey, from my experience, I have there's four big causes of delay.
And number one, dependency mismanagement. Like you started a ticket, you did not realize you
had a dependency, or you did not realize your dependency wasn't going to land in time. And you
sat there waiting and waiting and waiting and waiting and waiting for your dependency to clear
so that you could move forward. If you can identify these things and the next system I'll
talk about, we'll do it. I don't know if I'll do it justice sometime. What I tell people is don't
start the work until you are sure the dependency is cleared. Obviously, sometimes you miss
dependencies. And that's important in the retrospective to learn from so that the next
time, but don't start the work until you have the dependency cleared. Do not try to do things
in parallel with a dependent team is my best advice. Multitasking, that's another one.
I'm smiling because I've been having so many discussions around. These aren't part of an
official, even one of my stealth retros, but I work a lot with our teams on velocity and
predictability. And these are the things that come up all the time. Dependencies.
Multitasking is another one. Too many things at once. That's a huge problem in our orgs.
And yeah, it is, yes. This is not what I'm nodding at. These are things that you've applied your
scientific, your processes to, but it's the truth everywhere.
Yes. Another one is a bad definition of done during the design phase. People realizing that
they didn't describe it well enough, or they described it in a way that was sort of activity
driven. Same. Yeah. And then last.
I feel like I could go into any rando org in the world and give some generic blueprinted
advice around those things. And of course, help people reach them and that's it. That's all I
have to do. And then knowledge bottlenecks is the other major one. It's essentially you have
one person on the team that knows everything that is necessary for that story to move forward.
Because you've read the Phoenix project, that's Brent, not that Brent, the other Brent.
Not me. Yeah. At some point in time, I will probably send a mail to an author and
express my emotion around their choice of names. It's all coincidental. Although the three
definitely seem to enjoy that that person's name is Brent. I less so. So there is a tool.
And I'm definitely not going to be able to do this justice in the time we have remaining today,
but the it's called a value stream map. And this is something that I find very fascinating,
very enlightening. And what we do is so imagine the timeline for that particular ticket. And what
you do is you ask the person to just draw a line. And the line is along the timeline. And the line
just goes up or down. And it's just a zero or one if you think about any sort of graph that you see.
Okay. The x-axis, it are dates. And you say, all right. So when did you start? And they say,
this date. Great. Did you start now? How many days in a row were you actively working on it?
On that date? And actively working on it. And you draw a line in that up position for those
number of days. And then when they were stalled and delayed, you move it, you move the line
down and you say, how many days were you delayed on that one? And then up, down, up, down.
Alan, am I describing this well so far?
Yep. I'm quite familiar with the value stream map. And yes.
All right. Then what you do is you have the, you first look at the downs. That's where the delays
were occurring. And you have a, you look at the biggest one in that ticket and you say, okay,
what could we have done to just eliminate that delay? Like what were you doing there? What
were you waiting on? What could we have done to eliminate that, that particular delay? How
could we have gotten this ticket complete without that delay? Sometimes you'll find
tickets that don't have big delays or the delays or weekends. The weekend ones, I definitely
encourage just ignoring those. The, then if you see, okay, well, you see a big chunk where they
were working actively, say for seven days. Then, then you start going, okay, what could we have
done to, to shrink that? How could we have shared knowledge with you proactively? There are many
times where I find the person because there was a knowledge bottleneck. They spent their time,
three days of their cycle, actively learning what could have been answered in five minutes by that,
the knowledge bottleneck. And then you start calling out, oh, you know what, this,
this information is really important. Maybe what we need to do is have knowledge bottleneck,
spend an hour recording a presentation so that others can review it instead of, you know, going
through this one-off process. And so that allows people to sort of go through it tactically
and then identify additional sort of places to learn. Now, what I found is if you do this sort
of tactical thing over and over again, the common, I keep using the tactical, the common patterns
for the day-to-day job that is slowing them down become very clear. And again, they have the goal of
identifying two celebrates and two changes. And when you get them through these sort of paradigm
shifts, they start being very productive and identifying what they themselves,
I will say, again, one of the key ones that I've done on this one is the person who was
owning the ticket is in retrospective by definition, faultless. You want to encourage the, you want,
without using the word blame the team, you want to blame the team and basically say, no, no,
this guy did everything. They were perfect. They are a five-star engineer. They did everything that
they could have given the information. The reason why it fell down is you people didn't help him in
a timely fashion. Now let's figure out what we could have done so we don't do that next week.
So one of the, I'm going to, there's this concept referred to often psychological safety,
is this culture of no blame. And when I run more official, it's usually incident retro,
something we were doing a retrospective, not just from work on tickets, but here's something
that went wrong, whether it's in a delivery or in a customer impacting incident. And we want to
embrace the learning opportunity. And I typically lead these for teams across the organization.
And I always lead that discussion by saying, by reminding the team and they get it now.
And I say something like this, thanks for your time and coming today. Appreciate it. I want to
remind everybody, this is not about blame. This is, if it's anybody's fault, it's my fault. And
I want to have a discussion to figure out what we can do to our environment to make it less likely
that a problem like this could happen in the future. Some variation of that, because it
really is about creating the systems and environments and culture where the mistakes
that we have made in the past are much more difficult to make in the future.
We even, for our incidents, we even, our production incidents, we even track a large bucket.
We have a lot of different buckets for the category of an incident, but we sort of break
them down into, we messed up, somebody else messed up and we should have known better.
And the should have known better category is the things that where we had a similar incident
in the past and we failed to make the right adjustments to the system to stop that from
happening. The other angle, so I liked that. There's a couple of pivots that I will do is
what I will specifically call out again, that the person who was running the ticket
was perfect. They did, we will have retrospective under the assumption that this person did
everything correct under the context that they were in. I do, I shift back and forth
before between whether I use the B word or not, but I will always reinforce that that person was
perfect. And the other angle on that one is every so often that person will step up and they will
say, I am 100% at fault. I stop that. I prevent that. I disallow it. But there's other tricks
as well. So, so for example, if for some reason, we see that the ticket was actually delayed in the
design phase, then what I will do is I will not ask the person who owned the ticket any question
about that. I will ask who were the design reviewers and I will ask them, Hey, what do
you think you could have done to detect this? What do you think you could have done
to ask the right question sooner? Things along those lines, because I try to reinforce, Hey,
our job, the reason why we do design reviews is that we assume that the person who designed it
did something wrong, right? And in that design phase, they had some invalid assumption, right?
And so your job is to be the objective reviewer and go, Okay, what did they miss? And same thing.
If it's, if it's, for example, based off of a code review, Hey, how come how, what do we think we
could have done so that the code reviewers could have observed this sooner? But I always try to
protect. I don't want the discussion to be around the owner. I want the discussion to be around the
team and how the team could have detected this is a ticket or a person in trouble and come in and
give them the information that they need at that time. Right. This is the retrospective I found
is one of the more valuable techniques to block this, this phenomenon of it's a, that sounds like
your problem, not mine. Eric, I'm done babbling on that one.
All right. Short takeaway is retro's good. Do them, figure out what works for you and your team.
You could do it from the lightweight stuff retro all the way to really digging in. I love the
questions you have and I want to find a way to incorporate some of those into the, both the
stealth and the expected, I call them retros that my team does. Yep. Because we're focusing a lot
on finding delays in the system. I've got the team to realize that's really important. So I will use
some of your techniques and I hope the listeners have learned some things they can try to.
Me too. All right, man. So we are done. I think, do you have anything else? Any closing words,
any fancy things to say? Be safe, I guess. Yeah, I guess so. All right. I feel like a
news anchor that's supposed to say some sort of sign off catchphrase. Yeah, we don't really have
one. So thanks for listening yet again. We'll talk to you all soon. Bye.